Dear Headteacher, teachers, parents and fellow students, and very proud that you have chosen
me to speak to you today.
I have three roses here, a red one, a yellow one, and a white one.
These roses are to thank three groups of people for the three most important things that
I have learnt.
These three things are friendship, effort and trust.
I give the red rose to my friends.
When I started school here, my Chinese was not good, and some of my mistakes were very
funny.
I once tried to say Cie-Cie, but I said Cie-Cie instead.
Of course some people laughed, and I felt quite silly, but they were not laughing at me.
They taught me to say many things in Chinese, and kindly invited me to join them.
Today, thanks to their kindness, my Chinese is much better, and we have become friends.
So let me say Cie-Cie again to all of you for your help.
I give the white rose to my teachers, who have taught me that there is no success without
effort.
When I started running in the 800 meters, I always finished last, and I just wanted to
give up.
But the PE teacher, Ms. Huang, helped me.
She ran along with me, and she said, you only really lose if you give up.
I still can't run fast enough, but I've learned to try my best, not only with running,
but with whatever else I do.
I give the yellow rose to my parents, for teaching me that love is about trust.
When I wanted to learn the violin, my father told me that I should work harder at maths.
I was disappointed.
Then, on the morning of my birthday, I woke up to find a beautiful violin at my bedside.
There was a note from my father, I'm sure you will be good at music.
I know that you will be better at maths.
I'm sure that you all have your own memories about the happiness of the last three years,
and the people whom you want to thank for it.
So let's all stand up and say, thank you, friends, teachers, and parents.
We love you!